Case Study 2 - extra revisions (#88)
ImperialCollegeLondon/digital_research_sustainability_training: episodes/02_carbon.md

intensity the marginal power source is usually the one with the highest
dispatchability. For example, renewables are almost always used first, while nuclear energy
could be more difficult to turn off. In contrast, gas is expensive but has high dispatchability.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line line-length -->
![Energy generation mix pie chart on a sunny day in London obtained from [https://carbonintensity.org.uk/](https://carbonintensity.org.uk/)](fig/ep2_challenge_intensity.png){alt="Energy generation mix pie chart on a sunny day in London"}

Looking at the Generation Mix in the pie chart obtained from [https://carbonintensity.org.uk/](https://carbonintensity.org.uk/)
on a sunny day in London:

- Wind (17.9%) and Solar (18.6%): These have very low variable costs. If it is windy or
sunny, the grid uses all of this energy this energy first.
- Imports (44.5%): These are usually scheduled in advance based on international contracts.
While they can be marginal, they can't be as easily switched on and off.
- Gas (15.4%): High dispatchability, and can be 'increased' if the grid needs an immediate
increase in supply.

> 

Reviewer: Should we include pie charts from some more regions of the UK to show how the generation mix varies?

Author: Yeah this has crossed my mind that we cover the temporal variation well but it would be good to cover the regional variation as well. I've opened #94 for this but don't think we'll have a chance to address it before next week.

[Greenhouse Gas Protocol]: https://ghgprotocol.org/

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line line-length -->
![PLACEHOLDER](fig/ghg_emissions_placeholder.webp){alt="Placeholder - GHG Emissions Types."}

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: challenge

## Emission types

Based on the **GHG Protocol**, categorise each of the following activities
as **Scope 1**, **Scope 2**, or **Scope 3**.

1. Powering your laptop
2. Running simulations on a cloud provider
3. A return flight to a conference in New York
4. University-owned car that transports equipment
5. Recycling an old laptop
6. Leaking Ultra-low temperature (ULT) freezer

:::::::::::::::::::::::: solution

## Answer Key

| Activity | Scope | Justification |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| 1. Powering your laptop | **Scope 2** | Indirect emissions from energy purchased and used by the lab |
| 2. Running simulations on a cloud provider | **Scope 3** | You are using a service but don't own the servers |
| 3. Conference travel | **Scope 3** | The airline owns the plane |
| 4. University-owned car | **Scope 1** | Direct emissions by the institution |

> | 5. Recycling an old laptop | **Scope 3** | Downstream emissions from the laptop 'end-of-life |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 5. Recycling an old laptop | **Scope 3** | Downstream emissions from the laptop's end-of-life |
```
